Java date equals (#3031)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/date/terms/equals/equals.md

---
Title: '.equals()'

> Description: 'A method designed to check if the invoking date object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a boolean based on a comparison of equivalency between two dates.'
```

> contains a date and time that is equal to the one specified by date object'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Calendar'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.equals()`** is method of `Date` class. It compares the current date object to the specified object based on millisecond difference. It will returns **`true`** if the invoking date object contains a date that is equal to the one specified by date object. Otherwise, it returns **`false`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.equals()`** method of the `Date` class compares the current `Date` object to the specified object (based on the millisecond difference). It will return `true` if the dates are equal. Otherwise, it returns `false`.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> boolean equals(Object date)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateOne.equals(dateTwo)
```

> ```

Reviewer: add a space after the syntax block

> >**Note:** The return type of the method is  `boolean` so this method will return either `true` or `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The return type of the method is `boolean` so this method will return either `true` or `false`.
```

## Example

> In this example, the `JavaDateEqualsExample` class demonstrates the use of `.equals()`method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `JavaDateEqualsExample` class demonstrates the use of `.equals()`. 
```

```java

> import java.util.Date;

Reviewer: update the example to start comments with a capital and 2 spaces for indentation (tabs are not used in docs)

public class JavaDateEqualsExample {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // create a new date object
        Date dateOne = new Date();

        // print the current date and time
        System.out.println("first date object - current date and Time : " + dateOne);

        // create a second date object
        Date dateTwo = new Date();

        // print second date object
        System.out.println("second date object - current date and Time : " + dateTwo);

        // compare the first and second date object using equals() method
        boolean dateEqual = dateOne.equals(dateTwo);

        // print the result
        System.out.println("first date object and second date object are equal: " + dateEqual);
    }
}
```

This code will return an output similar to the following:

```shell
first date object - current date and Time : Fri Aug 18 22:55:26 IST 2023
second date object - current date and Time : Fri Aug 18 22:55:26 IST 2023
first date object and second date object are equal: false
```

> >**Note:** The output of the above example is **`false`** because it compares based on millisecond difference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The output of the above example is `false` because the method considers differences down to the millisecond.
```
